Migrate kubepod-operator guide (#1180)
astronomer/docs: guides/kubepod-operator.md

---
title: "Use the KubernetesPodOperator"

> sidebar_label: "Use the KubernetesPodOperator"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "KubernetesPodOperator"
```

description: "Use the KubernetesPodOperator in Airflow to run tasks in Kubernetes Pods"
id: kubepod-operator
---

The KubernetesPodOperator (KPO) runs a Docker image in a dedicated Kubernetes Pod. By abstracting calls to the Kubernetes API, the KubernetesPodOperator lets you start and run Pods from Airflow using DAG code.

In this guide, you'll learn:

- The requirements for running the KubernetesPodOperator.
- When to use the KubernetesPodOperator.
- How to configure the KubernetesPodOperator.
- The differences between the KubernetesPodOperator and the Kubernetes executor.

You'll also learn how to use the KubernetesPodOperator to run a task in a language other than Python, how to use the KubernetesPodOperator with XComs, and how to launch a Pod in a remote AWS EKS Cluster.  

> If you're unfamiliar with Kubernetes, Astronomer recommends that you review the [Kubernetes Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're unfamiliar with Kubernetes, review the [Kubernetes Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/) before starting this guide.  
```

Reviewer: Maybe better to turn this into an "Assumed knowledge" section?

## Requirements

To use the KubernetesPodOperator you need to install the Kubernetes provider package. To install it with pip, run:

```bash
pip install apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes==<version>
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you use the [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/overview), you can alternatively install the package by adding the following line to your Astro project:

```text
apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes==<version>
```

```

Reviewer: GitHub can't read the closed code fence in the suggestion, but make sure to format this correctly if you accept the suggestion.

Review the [Airflow Kubernetes provider Documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes/stable/index.html#requirements) to make sure you install the correct version of the provider package for your version of Airflow.

You also need an existing Kubernetes cluster to connect to. This is commonly the same cluster that Airflow is running on, but it doesn't have to be.

You don't need to use the Kubernetes executor to use the KubernetesPodOperator. You can choose one of the following executors:

- Local executor
- LocalKubernetes executor
- Celery executor
- Kubernetes executor
- CeleryKubernetes executor

> When using Celery, install the [Apache Airflow provider for Celery](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/celery).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This doesn't seem relevant to the content, I think it's okay to have people figure out Celery installation themselves if they need it.

On Astro, the infrastructure needed to run the KubernetesPodOperator with the Celery executor is included with all clusters by default.  For more information, see [Run the KubernetesPodOperator on Astro](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/kubernetespodoperator).  

### Run the KubernetesPodOperator locally

Setting up your local environment to use the KubernetesPodOperator can help you avoid time consuming deployments to remote environments.

> To set up your local environment using the Astro CLI, see [Test and Troubleshoot the KubernetesPodOperator Locally](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/kubepodoperator-local).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up your local environment using the Astro CLI, see [Test and troubleshoot the KubernetesPodOperator locally](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/kubepodoperator-local).
```

You can use the [Helm Chart for Apache Airflow](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/helm-chart/stable/index.html) to run open source Airflow within a local Kubernetes cluster. See [Getting Started With the Official Airflow Helm Chart](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=39k2Sz9jZ2c&ab_channel=Astronomer).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## When to use the KubernetesPodOperator

The KubernetesPodOperator runs any Docker image provided to it. Frequent use cases are:

> - Running a task in a language other than Python. We include an example of how to run a Haskell script with the KubernetesPodOperator later in this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Running a task in a language other than Python. This guide includes an example of how to run a Haskell script with the KubernetesPodOperator.
```

- Having full control over how much compute resources and memory a single task can use.
- Executing tasks in a separate environment with individual packages and dependencies.
- Running tasks that use a version of Python not supported by your Airflow environment.
- Running tasks with specific Node (a virtual or physical machine in Kubernetes) constraints, such as only running on Nodes located in the European Union.

### A comparison of the KubernetesPodOperator and the Kubernetes executor

> [Executors](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/airflow-executors-explained) determine how your Airflow tasks are executed. The Kubernetes executor and the KubernetesPodOperator both dynamically launch and terminate Pods to run Airflow tasks. As the name suggests, the Kubernetes executor affects how all tasks in an Airflow instance are executed. The KubernetesPodOperator launches only its own task in a Kubernetes Pod with its own configuration. It does not affect any other tasks in the Airflow instance. To configure the Kubernetes executor, see [Kubernetes Executor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/executor/kubernetes.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Executors](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/airflow-executors-explained) determine how your Airflow tasks are executed. The Kubernetes executor and the KubernetesPodOperator both dynamically launch and terminate Pods to run Airflow tasks. As the name suggests, the Kubernetes executor affects how all tasks in an Airflow instance are executed. The KubernetesPodOperator launches only its own task in a Kubernetes Pod with its own configuration. It does not affect any other tasks in the Airflow instance. To configure the Kubernetes executor, see [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/executor/kubernetes.html).
```

If you are not running Airflow on Kubernetes, or want to send the Pod to a different cluster than the one currently hosting your Airflow instance, you can create a Kubernetes Cluster [connection](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/connections) which uses the [Kubernetes hook](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/kubernetes/modules/kuberneteshook) to connect to the [Kubernetes API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/) of a different Kubernetes cluster. This connection can be passed to the KubernetesPodOperator using the `kubernetes_conn_id` argument and requires the following components to work:

- A `KubeConfig` file, provided as either a path to the file or in JSON format.
- The cluster context from the provided `KubeConfig` file.

The following image shows how to set up a Kubernetes cluster connection in the Airflow UI.

![Kubernetes Cluster Connection](/img/guides/kubernetes_cluster_connection.png)

> The components of the connection can also be set or overwritten at the task level by using the arguments `config_file` (to specify the path to the `KubeConfig` file) and `cluster_context`. Setting these parameters at the level of `airflow.cfg` has been deprecated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The components of the connection can also be set or overwritten at the task level by using the arguments `config_file` (to specify the path to the `KubeConfig` file) and `cluster_context`. Setting these parameters in `airflow.cfg` has been deprecated.
```

> ### Example: Using the KubernetesPodOperator to run a script in another language

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: Use the KubernetesPodOperator to run a script in another language
```

) as dag:

    say_hello_name_in_haskell = KubernetesPodOperator(
        # unique id of the task within the DAG
        task_id='say_hello_name_in_haskell',
        # the Docker image to launch
        image='<image location>',
        # launch the Pod on the same cluster as Airflow is running on
        in_cluster=True,
        # launch the Pod in the same namespace as Airflow is running in
        namespace=namespace,

        # Pod configuration
        # name the Pod
        name='my_pod',
        # give the Pod name a random suffix, ensure uniqueness in the namespace
        random_name_suffix=True,
        # attach labels to the Pod, can be used for grouping
        labels={'app':'backend', 'env':'dev'},
        # reattach to worker instead of creating a new Pod on worker failure
        reattach_on_restart=True,
        # delete Pod after the task is finished
        is_delete_operator_pod=True,
        # get log stdout of the container as task logs
        get_logs=True,
        # log events in case of Pod failure
        log_events_on_failure=True,
        # pass your name as an environment var
        env_vars={"NAME_TO_GREET": f"{name}"}
        )
```

> ## Example: Using the KubernetesPodOperator with XComs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example: Use the KubernetesPodOperator with XComs
```

        # log stdout of the container as task logs
        get_logs=True,
        # log events in case of Pod failure
        log_events_on_failure=True,
        # pull a variable from XComs using Jinja templating and provide it
        # to the Pod as an environment variable
        env_vars={"DATA_POINT": """{{ ti.xcom_pull(task_ids='extract_data',
                                                 key='return_value') }}"""},
        # push the contents from xcom.json to Xcoms. Remember to only set this
        # argument to True if you have created the `airflow/xcom/return.json`
        # file within the Docker container run by the KubernetesPodOperator.
        do_xcom_push=True
        )

    @task
    def load_data(**context):
        # pull the XCom value that has been pushed by the KubernetesPodOperator
        transformed_data_point = context['ti'].xcom_pull(
                                               task_ids='transform',
                                               key='return_value')
        print(transformed_data_point)

    # set dependencies (tasks defined using Decorators need to be called)
    extract_data() >> transform >> load_data()
```

> ## Example: Using KubernetesPodOperator to run a Pod in a separate cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example: Use KubernetesPodOperator to run a Pod in a separate cluster
```

### Step 1: Set up an EKS cluster on AWS

1. [Create an EKS cluster IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/service_IAM_role.html#create-service-role) with a unique name and add the following permission policies:

    - `AmazonEKSWorkerNodePolicy`
    - `AmazonEKS_CNI_Policy`
    - `AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryReadOnly`

2. [Update the trust policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/directoryservice/latest/admin-guide/edit_trust.html) of this new role to include your user and necessary AWS Services. This step ensures that the role can be assumed by your user.

    ```json
    {
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
        "Effect": "Allow",
        "Principal": {
            "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<aws account id>:<your user>",
            "Service": [
                "ec2.amazonaws.com",
                "eks.amazonaws.com"
            ]
        },
        "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
        }
    ]
    }
    ```

> 3. Add the new role to your local AWS config file, which by default is located at `~/.aws/config` (for more information see the [AWS docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html#cli-configure-files-where)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the new role to your local AWS config file, which by default is located at `~/.aws/config`. See the [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html#cli-configure-files-where).
```

    ```text
    [default]
    region = <your region>

    [profile <name of the new role>]
    role_arn = <EKS role arn>
    source_profile = <your user>
    ```

> 4. Make sure your default credentials include a valid and active key for your username. See [Programmatic access](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html#access-keys-and-secret-access-keys) for more information).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Make sure your default credentials include a valid and active key for your username. See [Programmatic access](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html#access-keys-and-secret-access-keys).
```
